WARHAMMER 40,000 – PSYCHIC AWAKENING: BLOOD OF BAAL 1
PSYCHIC AWAKENING: BLOOD OF BAAL
Indomitus Version 1.0
These documents collect amendments to the rules and present
our responses to players’ frequently asked questions. Often
these amendments are updates necessitated by new releases or
community feedback; these can be identified by the presence
of an asterisk before the page reference. At other times, these
amendments are errata designed to correct mistakes or add
clarity to a rule that is not as clear as it might be.
As they’re revised regularly, each of these documents has a
version number; where a version number has a letter, e.g. 1.1a,
this means it has had a local amendment, only in that language,
to clarify a translation issue or other minor correction. When
a document is revised, the version number will be incremented
and new updates will be highlighted in blue, while new errata
and FAQs will be highlighted in magenta.
UPDATES & ERRATA
Page 34 – Combat Doctrines
Replace the Combat Doctrines ability with the following (note
that the Devastator Doctrine, Tactical Doctrine and Assault
Doctrine remain unchanged):
‘If your army is Battle-forged and if every unit from your army
has this ability (excluding Servitor and Unaligned units), this
unit gains a bonus (see below) depending on which combat
doctrine is active for your army, as follows:
• During the first battle round, the Devastator Doctrine is
active for your army.
• During the second battle round, the Tactical Doctrine is
active for your army.
• At the start of the third battle round, select either the Tactical
Doctrine or Assault Doctrine: until the end of that battle
round, the doctrine you selected is active for your army.
• During the fourth and subsequent battle rounds, the Assault
Doctrine is active for your army.
Unless specified otherwise, this bonus is not cumulative
with any other rules that improve the Armour Penetration
characteristic of a weapon (e.g. the Storm of Fire Warlord Trait).’
Page 36 – Astorath, Priest
Change the first sentence to:
‘This model knows the Litany of Hate (see below) and two other
litanies from the Litanies of Battle (pg 58).’
Page 37 – Lemartes, Abilities
Add the following ability:
‘Black Rage: Add 1 to the Attacks characteristic of models in
this unit during any turn in which it made a charge move. When
a model in this unit would lose a wound, roll one D6; on a 6 that
wound is not lost.’
Change the first sentence of the Priest section to:
‘This model knows the Litany of Hate (see below) and one other
litany from the Litanies of Battle (pg 58).’
Page 37 – Chaplain in Terminator Armour, Priest
Change the first sentence to:
‘This model knows the Litany of Hate (see below) and one other
litany from the Litanies of Battle (pg 58).’
Page 38 – Chaplain, Priest
Change the first sentence to:
‘This model knows the Litany of Hate (see below) and one other
litany from the Litanies of Battle (pg 58).’
Page 38 – Primaris Chaplain, Priest
Change the first sentence to:
‘This model knows the Litany of Hate (see below) and one other
litany from the Litanies of Battle (pg 58).’
*Page 40 – Repulsor Executioner, Power of the Machine Spirit
Delete this ability.
*Page 41 – Captain in Phobos Armour,
master-crafted instigator bolt carbine, Abilities
Change to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
*Pages 41 and 42 – Captain in Phobos Armour and Librarian in
Phobos Armour, Abilities, Camo Cloak
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to this model while it
is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to any
armour saving throw made against that attack.’
Page 42 – Librarian in Phobos Armour, Psyker
Change the last sentence to read:
‘It knows Smite and two psychic powers from the Obscuration
discipline (pg 58) or two psychic powers from the Sanguinary
discipline (see Codex: Blood Angels).’
WARHAMMER 40,000 – PSYCHIC AWAKENING: BLOOD OF BAAL 2
Page 42 – Sanguinary Priest, Abilities
Replace ‘And They Shall Know No Fear’ with ‘Angels of Death’
*Page 48 – Eliminator Squad, bolt sniper rifle, executioner
round, hyperfrag round and mortis round, Abilities
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
*Page 48 – Eliminator Squad, instigator bolt carbine, Abilities
Change to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
*Page 48 – Eliminator Squad, Camo Cloak
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to a model in this unit
while it is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to
any armour saving throw made against that attack.’
*Page 54 – Stratagems, Big Guns Never Tire
Delete this Stratagem.
Page 54 – Stratagems, Duty Eternal
Change this Stratagem to read:
‘Use this Stratagem when a Blood Angels Dreadnought model
from your army is chosen as the target for an attack. Until the end
of the phase, when resolving an attack made against that model,
you can reduce any damage suffered by 1, to a minimum of 1 (this
is not cumulative with any other rules that reduce the damage).’
*Page 56 – Target Sighted
Change the third sentence to read:
‘Until the end of the phase, stalker bolt rifles the models in that
unit are armed with gain the following ability: ‘Each time you
select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the Look Out, Sir
rule. If you roll a wound roll of 6+ for this weapon, it inflicts a
mortal wound in addition to its normal damage.’
Page 56 – Stratagems, Adaptive Strategy
Delete this Stratagem.
*Pages 66 & 67 – Ranged Weapons
Add the following:
‘Instigator bolt carbine – 0 points
Las fusil – 10 points’
*Page 75 – Hive Fleet Adaptations, Morphic Sinews
Change to read:
‘Monster models with this adaptation do not suffer the penalty
incurred to their hit rolls for firing at enemy units that are
within Engagement Range of them, and do not suffer the penalty
incurred to their hit rolls for firing Assault weapons in a turn in
which they Advanced.’
Page 76 – Adaptive Physiology
Add the following at the end of the first paragraph:
‘Named characters cannot be given an Adaptive Physiology.’
*Page 76 – Infantry Adaptive Physiologies,
Dynamic Camouflage
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to a model in this unit
while it is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to
any armour saving throw made against that attack.’
FAQs
BLOOD ANGELS
Q: Is the Fury Within ability’s improvement to Armour
Penetration characteristics cumulative with that from the
Assault Doctrine?
A: No.
TYRANIDS
Q: If an Exocrine model is affected by the Symbiotic Devastation
Stratagem in the same turn that it Advanced, can it then shoot
that turn?
A: No, because it has still Advanced that turn.
Q: Can the Hive Instinct Stratagem be used after a charge roll is
failed for a unit from your army?
A: Yes. However, it will not affect the charge roll that was just
failed, as the number of dice to roll for that charge roll will have
already been determined by that point.
Q: Does the Bio-metallic Cysts Hive Fleet Adaptation also
improve the Armour Penetration characteristic of massive
scything talons and monstrous scything talons?
A: No.
Q: Does the Cranial Channelling Hive Fleet Adaptation allow
each Psyker unit with this adaptation to re-roll one Psychic test
per turn, or a single Psyker unit with this Adaptation in your
army to re-roll one Psychic test per turn?
A: It allows a single Psyker unit with this Adaptation in your
army to re-roll one Psychic test per turn.