WARHAMMER 40,000 – CODEX: NECRONS 1
CODEX: NECRONS
Indomitus Version 1.0
These documents collect amendments to the rules and present
our responses to players’ frequently asked questions. Often
these amendments are updates necessitated by new releases or
community feedback; these can be identified by the presence
of an asterisk before the page reference. At other times, these
amendments are errata designed to correct mistakes or add
clarity to a rule that is not as clear as it might be.
As they’re revised regularly, each of these documents has a
version number; where a version number has a letter, e.g. 1.1a,
this means it has had a local amendment, only in that language,
to clarify a translation issue or other minor correction. When
a document is revised, the version number will be incremented
and new updates will be highlighted in blue, while new errata
and FAQs will be highlighted in magenta.
UPDATES & ERRATA
Pages 87 and 99 – Catacomb Command Barge and Annihilation
Barge, Abilities
Add the following ability:
‘Hovering: Instead of measuring distances and ranges to and
from this model’s base, measure to and from this model’s hull or
base (whichever is closer).’
*Pages 91 and 104 – Deathmarks and Ranged Weapons,
synaptic disintegrator, Abilities
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
*Page 95 – Canoptek Wraiths, Abilities, Wraith Form
Change this ability to read:
‘Models in this unit have a 3+ invulnerable save. Each time this
unit makes a Normal Move, Advances, Falls Back or makes a
charge move, until that move is finished, models in this unit can
move horizontally through models and terrain features (they
cannot finish a move on top of another model, or its base). ’
*Page 98 – Monolith, Abilities, Eternity Gate
Change the penultimate sentence of this ability to read:
‘Set up the unit so that it is wholly within 3" of this model and
not within Engagement Range of any enemy units ; the unit
that has just been set up counts as having disembarked from a
Transport for all rules purposes.’
*Page 98 – Monolith, Abilities, Floating Fortress
Delete this ability.
*Page 102 – Night Scythe, Abilities, Invasion Beams
Change the penultimate sentence of this ability to read:
‘Set up the unit so that it is wholly within 3" of this model and
not within Engagement Range of any enemy units ; the unit
that has just been set up counts as having disembarked from a
Transport for all rules purposes.’
*Page 110 – Stratagems, Emergency Invasion Beam, rules text
Add the following:
‘Units set up with this Stratagem can be set up during the first
battle round, regardless of any mission rules.’
Page 112 – Stratagems, Methodical Destruction
Change to read:
‘Use this Stratagem after a Sautekh unit from your army has
attacked an enemy unit and the attack resulted in the enemy
unit losing one or more wounds. Add 1 to hit rolls for attacks
made by other Sautekh units from your army that target the
same enemy unit this phase.’
Page 117 – Named Characters and Warlord Traits
Add the following at the end of the paragraph:
‘If either Illuminor Szeras or Anrakyr the Traveller is your
Warlord, then replace the <Dynasty> keyword in their Warlord
Trait with Necron.’
*Page 117 – Dynasty Warlord Traits, Mephrit, Merciless Tyrant,
rules text
Change the second sentence to read:
‘Each time you select a target for an Assault weapon this
Warlord is making an attack with, you can ignore the Look Out,
Sir rule.’
Page 118 – Points Values, Troops
Move the entries for Deathmarks and Lychguard from the
‘Troops’ section into the ‘Elites’ section.
FAQs
Q: Can C’tan Shards use a Power of the C’tan while within
Engagement Range of an enemy model?
A: Yes.
Q: Can a Triarch Stalker use its Targeting Relay ability to re-roll
hit rolls of 1 for its own attacks after the first?
A: No.
Q: Can the Quantum Deflection Stratagem allow a unit with
the Quantum Shielding ability to ignore attacks with a Damage
characteristic of 1?
A: Yes.
WARHAMMER 40,000 – CODEX: NECRONS 2
Q: When Deathmarks use the Ethereal Interception ability
to attack an enemy unit that has just been set up, does every
Deathmark model have to target that unit, or only at least one?
A: Every model in the Deathmarks unit must target the unit that
has just been set up.
Q: Are units that are set up on their tomb world using the
Invasion Beams and Eternity Gate abilities counted as
Reinforcement units for the purpose of any mission rules ?
A: Yes.