WARHAMMER 40,000 – PSYCHIC AWAKENING: RITUAL OF THE DAMNED 1
PSYCHIC AWAKENING: RITUAL OF THE DAMNED
Indomitus Version 1.1
These documents collect amendments to the rules and present
our responses to players’ frequently asked questions. Often
these amendments are updates necessitated by new releases or
community feedback; these can be identified by the presence
of an asterisk before the page reference. At other times, these
amendments are errata designed to correct mistakes or add
clarity to a rule that is not as clear as it might be.
As they’re revised regularly, each of these documents has a
version number; where a version number has a letter, e.g. 1.1a,
this means it has had a local amendment, only in that language,
to clarify a translation issue or other minor correction. When
a document is revised, the version number will be incremented
and new updates will be highlighted in blue, while new errata
and FAQs will be highlighted in magenta.
UPDATES & ERRATA
Page 35 – Combat Doctrines
Replace the Combat Doctrines ability with the following (note
that the Devastator Doctrine, Tactical Doctrine and Assault
Doctrine remain unchanged):
‘If your army is Battle-forged and if every unit from your army
has this ability (excluding Servitor and Unaligned units), this
unit gains a bonus (see below) depending on which combat
doctrine is active for your army, as follows:
• During the first battle round, the Devastator Doctrine is
active for your army.
• During the second battle round, the Tactical Doctrine is
active for your army.
• At the start of the third battle round, select either the Tactical
Doctrine or Assault Doctrine: until the end of that battle
round, the doctrine you selected is active for your army.
• During the fourth and subsequent battle rounds, the Assault
Doctrine is active for your army.
Unless specified otherwise, this bonus is not cumulative
with any other rules that improve the Armour Penetration
characteristic of a weapon (e.g. the Storm of Fire Warlord Trait).’
Page 37, 39 and 41 – Aura of Dread
Change the sentence to read:
‘Subtract 1 from the Leadership characteristic of enemy units
whilst they are within 6" of any units from your army with
this ability.’
*Page 39 – Master in Phobos Armour, master-crafted instigator
bolt carbine, Abilities
Change to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
*Page 39 – Master in Phobos Armour, Camo Cloak
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to this model while it
is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to any
armour saving throw made against that attack.’
*Page 40 – Lieutenants in Phobos Armour, Camo Cloak
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to this model while it
is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to any
armour saving throw made against that attack.’
*Page 41 – Librarian in Phobos Armour, Camo Cloak
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to this model while it
is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to any
armour saving throw made against that attack.’
*Page 47 – Eliminators, bolt sniper rifle
Executioner round, Abilities
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
Hyperfrag round, Abilities
Change to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
Mortis round, Abilities
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
*Page 47 – Instigator bolt carbine, Abilities
Change to read:
‘Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the
Look Out, Sir rule.’
*Page 47 – Eliminator Squad, Camo Cloak
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to a model in this unit
while it is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to
any armour saving throw made against that attack.’
WARHAMMER 40,000 – PSYCHIC AWAKENING: RITUAL OF THE DAMNED 2
*Page 48 – Repulsor Executioner, Power of the Machine Spirit
Delete this ability.
Page 51 – Duty Eternal Stratagem
Change this Stratagem to read:
‘Use this Stratagem when a Dark Angels Dreadnought model
from your army is chosen as the target for an attack. Until the
end of the phase, when resolving an attack made against that
model, you can reduce any damage suffered by 1, to a minimum
of 1 (this is not cumulative with any other rules that reduce
the damage).’
*Page 52 – Big Guns Never Tire
Delete this Stratagem.
*Page 52 – Target Sighted
Change the third sentence to read:
‘Until the end of the phase, stalker bolt rifles the models in that
unit are armed with gain the following ability: ‘Each time you
select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the Look Out, Sir
rule. If you roll a wound roll of 6+ for this weapon, it inflicts a
mortal wound in addition to its normal damage.’’
Page 53 – Adaptive Strategy Stratagem
Delete this Stratagem.
*Page 56 – Impeccable Mobility
Change this Warlord Trait to read:
‘Whilst they are within 6" of this Warlord, models in Ravenwing
units from your army that have Advanced this turn do not suffer
the penalty for Advancing and firing Assault weapons.’
Page 66 – Masters of the Warp
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Psyker units with this ability gain a bonus depending on which
of the Tides of the Warp is dominant (see below).’
*Page 68 – Big Guns Never Tire
Delete this Stratagem.
Page 69 – Duty Eternal Stratagem
Change this Stratagem to read:
‘Use this Stratagem when a Grey Knights Dreadnought model
from your army is chosen as the target for an attack. Until the
end of the phase, when resolving an attack made against that
model, you can reduce any damage suffered by 1, to a minimum
of 1 (this is not cumulative with any other rules that reduce
the damage).’
Page 79 – Pythic Brazier
Change the sentence to read:
‘When a Cult of Prophecy unit within 6" of a friendly model
with this Relic is chosen to shoot or fight with, you can re-roll
one hit roll, one wound roll, or one damage roll.’
*Page 79 – Warlord Traits
Change to read:
‘If a Thousand Sons <Cult> Character model gains a Warlord
Trait, they can have the relevant <Cult> Warlord Trait instead of
a Warlord Trait from Codex: Thousand Sons.’
*Page 79 – Sorcerous Arcana
Change the first sentence to read:
‘If your army is led by Magnus the Red or a Thousand Sons
<Cult> Warlord, you can…’
FAQs
GREY KNIGHTS
Q: Can a Warlord with the Loremaster Warlord Trait know
psychic powers from both the Sanctic and Dominus disciplines?
A: No. When choosing to generate psychic powers from the
Dominus discipline, a model replaces all of the psychic powers
that they would have known from the Sanctic discipline with
ones from the Dominus discipline. This includes the additional
power from the Loremaster Warlord Trait.
Q: If a unit affected by the Powerful Adept Stratagem manifests
the Vortex of Doom psychic power, what ranges are used?
A: The vortex will open over the nearest visible enemy model
within 18", but the power will still only affect other units within
3" of that model.
THOUSAND SONS
Q: If I manifest the Warp Reality psychic power with a unit that
has the Brotherhood of Sorcerers ability, can I use that ability to
select one enemy unit within 9" of the terrain feature?
A: No. The Brotherhood of Sorcerers ability allows you to select
a terrain feature within 24" of the Psyker.
Q: Can the ability from the Guided by the Whispers Warlord Trait
be used by a model that cannot fire Overwatch due to not having
a ranged weapon, not having line of sight or being out of range?
A: Yes, unless another rule would prevent them from being able
to fire Overwatch (such as being within Engagement Range of
any enemy units or being under the effects of a rule that prevents
the model from firing Overwatch).
Q: If I have a <Cult> Warlord and I use the Magister Stratagem
to give a Thousand Sons Character from a different <Cult> a
Warlord Trait, can I select their relevant <Cult> Warlord Trait?
A: Yes, as they are regarded as your Warlord for the purposes of
that Warlord Trait.
Q: If I have a <Cult> Warlord and I use the Relics of the
Thousand Sons Stratagem to give a Thousand Sons Character
from a different <Cult> a Sorcerous Arcana, can I select their
relevant <Cult> Sorcerous Arcana?
A: No, as you can only select that Sorcerous Arcana if your
Warlord is from that <Cult>.
DARK ANGELS
Q: Does the Pennant of Remembrance replace a Deathwing
Ancient’s Deathwing Company Banner ability?
A: No. It is an ability the model gains in addition to the
Deathwing Company Banner ability.