WARHAMMER 40,000 – PSYCHIC AWAKENING: THE GREATER GOOD 1
PSYCHIC AWAKENING: THE GREATER GOOD
Indomitus Version 1.1
These documents collect amendments to the rules and present
our responses to players’ frequently asked questions. Often
these amendments are updates necessitated by new releases or
community feedback; these can be identified by the presence
of an asterisk before the page reference. At other times, these
amendments are errata designed to correct mistakes or add
clarity to a rule that is not as clear as it might be.
As they’re revised regularly, each of these documents has a
version number; where a version number has a letter, e.g. 1.1a,
this means it has had a local amendment, only in that language,
to clarify a translation issue or other minor correction. When
a document is revised, the version number will be incremented
and new updates will be highlighted in blue, while new errata
and FAQs will be highlighted in magenta.
UPDATES & ERRATA
Page 36 – Prototype Weapons Systems
Add the following to the end of the first paragraph:
‘No unit can have more than one Prototype Weapons System and
all the Prototype Weapons Systems in your army must be different.’
Page 38 – T’au Empire Stratagems, Modulated Weaponry
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Use this Stratagem in your Shooting phase, when a Riptide,
Ghostkeel or Vehicle model (other than a Titanic model) from
your army is chosen to shoot with.’
Page 47 – Cyclic ion blaster, Overcharge, ability
Change this weapon’s Overcharge profile ability to read:
‘If you roll one or more hit rolls of 1, the bearer’s unit
suffers a mortal wound after all of this weapon’s shots have
been resolved.’
Page 48 – Abilities (Farsight), Master of War
Change this ability to read:
‘Master of War (pg 46)’
*Page 46 – Including The Eight in your army
Change the second sentence to read:
‘If your army is Battle-forged, you can only include this
datasheet in a Super-heavy Auxiliary Detachment; if you do, you
cannot give any model in your army a Signature System.’
Page 50 – Forces of the Enclaves, Abilities
Change this to read:
‘All Farsight Enclaves units in Farsight Enclaves Detachments
– that is, any Detachment that only includes Farsight Enclaves
units – gain the Aggressive Footing ability:’
Page 51 – Farsight Enclaves Stratagems, Veteran Cadre
Change the third sentence to read:
‘Models in that unit (excluding Drones) have a Weapon Skill
characteristic of 4+ and a Ballistic Skill characteristic of 3+.’
Page 52 – Enclave Relics, Seismic Fibrillator Node
Change this Relic to read:
‘Once per battle, at the start of your opponent’s turn, you can
choose to activate this Relic. If you do, until the end of that
turn, when a model starts or ends a move (excluding pile-in or
consolidation moves) within 6" of a model with this Relic, roll
one D6: on a 1 that model’s unit suffers 1 mortal wound.’
*Page 65 – The Eight, Abilities (Ob’Lotai 9-0), Advanced
Scan Feeds
Change to read:
‘This model can Advance and fire Heavy weapons, but you must
subtract 1 from its hit rolls when it does so.’
Page 66 – Heirlooms of the Regiments, Blessed Boltgun
Change this Heirloom to the following:
‘Blessed Bolt Pistol
Two-dozen sisters of the Order of the Glowing Chalice have
prayed over this holy bolt pistol.
9th Iotan Gorgonnes model equipped with a bolt pistol only.
This Relic replaces a bolt pistol and has the following profile:
WEAPON RANGE TYPE S AP D
Blessed bolt pistol 12" Pistol 2 5 -2 2
Abilities: Each time you select a target for this weapon, you can ignore the Look Out,
Sir rule. When resolving an attack made with this weapon against a Psyker unit, this
weapon has a Damage characteristic of 3 for that attack.
Page 69 – Militarum Tempestus Stratagems,
Tactical Misdirection
Change the second sentence to read:
‘In your opponent’s next Shooting phase, when resolving an
attack made by an enemy model against a unit other than that
55th Kappic Eagles unit, subtract 1 from the hit roll if that 55th
Kappic Eagles unit is the closest visible unit from your army to
that model and it is not within 1" of any enemy models.’
*Page 74 – Cult Creeds, Agile Outriders
Change this Cult Creed to read:
‘If a Biker unit with this Cult Creed Advances, until the end
of the turn, all models in that unit treat all Pistol and Rapid
Fire weapons they are equipped with as Assault weapons.
Biker models with this Cult Creed do not suffer the penalty for
Advancing and firing Assault weapons.’
WARHAMMER 40,000 – PSYCHIC AWAKENING: THE GREATER GOOD 2
*Page 74 – Cult Creeds, Thralls of the Patriarch
Change to read:
‘Each time a Morale test is failed for a unit with this Cult Creed,
until the end of the phase, halve the number of models that
flee that unit due to failed Combat Attrition tests (rounding
fractions down).’
FAQs
Q: Does a rule that allows you to take a second Signature System
from Codex: T’au Empire allow you to instead take a second
Prototype Weapons System?
A: Yes.
Q: Do reactive countermeasures replace the model’s airbursting
fragmentation projector?
A: No. The ability gained is in addition to the weapon (which
can be fired normally).
Q: Do accelerated-photon grenades replace the model’s
photon grenades?
A: No. The ability gained is in addition to the weapon (which
can be fired normally).
Q: Does the cross-linked stabiliser jets Prototype Weapons System
apply to all models in the unit, or just one?
A: It applies to all models in the unit.
Q: How does the Hybridised Weaponry tenet apply to pulse
blasters? Does it add 4" to the maximum range of the weapon (so
increasing long range to 19"), or does it add 4" to all the profiles
(close, medium and long range)?
A: It adds 4" to the maximum range of the weapon (increasing
long range to 19").
Q: Does the Up-gunned tenet also improve the Armour
Penetration characteristic of high-output burst cannons and longbarreled burst cannons?
A: No.
Q: Are the hit roll modifiers from accelerated-photon grenades
cumulative with those from photon grenades?
A: Yes.
Q: If a model with the Aggressive Footing ability shoots at a unit
within 12" that has zero markerlight counters on it, does it treat
that unit as having one markerlight counter instead?
A: Yes.
Q: The Onager Gauntlet and Fusion Blades (melee) have slightly
different abilities than those printed in Codex: T’au Empire. Is
this on purpose?
A: Yes, when wielded by the heroes of The Eight, use the slightly
improved abilities for these weapons. Continue to use the
rules as printed in Codex: T’au Empire if they are equipped on
another Character.
Q. Can the Full Payload Tank Ace ability be used to affect the
mortal wound output of Deathstrike missiles?
A: No. Full Payload only affects the Damage characteristic of a
weapon, not any abilities the weapon may have.
Q: Are units who have been ordered to Move! Move! Move!
Considered to have Advanced for the purposes of the Wilderness
Survivors Regimental Doctrine?
A: Yes, they are considered to have Advanced.
Q: Are the Militarum Tempestus Regimental Doctrines taken
in addition to the Storm Troopers Regimental Doctrine listed in
Codex: Astra Militarum, or instead of it?
A: They are taken instead of the Storm Troopers Regimental
Doctrine in Codex: Astra Militarum. Note, if you wish to
continue using your Militarum Tempestus Detachments as you
currently have been, you can simply select the Storm Troopers
Regimental Doctrine from page 65 in Psychic Awakening: The
Greater Good.