WARHAMMER 40,000 – CODEX: THOUSAND SONS 1
CODEX: THOUSAND SONS
Indomitus Version 1.0
These documents collect amendments to the rules and present
our responses to players’ frequently asked questions. Often
these amendments are updates necessitated by new releases or
community feedback; these can be identified by the presence
of an asterisk before the page reference. At other times, these
amendments are errata designed to correct mistakes or add
clarity to a rule that is not as clear as it might be.
As they’re revised regularly, each of these documents has a
version number; where a version number has a letter, e.g. 1.1a,
this means it has had a local amendment, only in that language,
to clarify a translation issue or other minor correction. When
a document is revised, the version number will be incremented
and new updates will be highlighted in blue, while new errata
and FAQs will be highlighted in magenta.
UPDATES & ERRATA
All Thousand Sons datasheets (excluding Chaos Cultists
and Tzaangor)
Add the following ability:
‘Hateful Assault: If this unit makes a charge move, is charged
or performs a Heroic Intervention, add 1 to the Attacks
characteristic of models in this unit until the end of the turn.’
Page 68 – Daemon Prince of Tzeentch
Add ‘Psyker’ to the keywords line.
Page 73 – Tzaangors, Wargear Options
Add the following bullet point:
‘• One Tzaangor can take an Icon of Flame (pg 90)’
Page 74 – Horrors, Power Rating
Change the Power Rating to read ‘4’.
Page 74 – Horrors, unit description
Change the second sentence to read:
‘It can include up to 10 additional Horrors (Power Rating +4) or
up to 20 additional Horrors (Power Rating +8).’
Page 74 – Horrors, Abilities, Magic Made Manifest
Change this ability to read:
‘Magic Made Manifest: A unit of Horrors can attempt to
manifest one psychic power in each friendly Psychic phase, and
attempt to deny one psychic power in each enemy Psychic phase.
However, when you do so, only roll a single D6 for the Psychic
test or Deny the Witch test, and use the result to determine
the outcome. Note that this means the Horrors can’t roll a
double 1 or 6 to suffer Perils of the Warp. In addition, if the unit
manifests the Smite psychic power whilst it contains less than 10
Pink Horrors, it only inflicts 1 mortal wound rather than D3.’
*Page 79 – Chaos Spawn, Abilities, Mutated Beyond Reason,
Designer’s Note
Change the last sentence to read:
‘Each has a points value of 23 (this includes all of its weapons).’
*Page 82 and 91 – Chaos Vindicator and Ranged Weapons list,
demolisher cannon
Change Type characteristic to Heavy D6 and Abilities to ‘Blast’.
*Page 83 – Chaos Land Raider, Abilities, Daemonic
Machine Spirit
Delete this ability.
Page 96 – Stratagems, Fire Frenzy, rules text
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Use this Stratagem in your Shooting phase, just before a
Thousand Sons Helbrute from your army shoots.’
Page 96 – Stratagems, Cabalistic Focus
Change to read:
‘Use this Stratagem before attempting to manifest a psychic
power with a Thousand Sons Psyker from your army that is
within 6" of at least two other friendly Thousand Sons Psyker
units. Add 2 to the Psychic test.’
Page 96 – Stratagems, Killshot, rules text
Change the second sentence to read:
‘Add 1 to the wound rolls and damage for all of the Predators’
attacks that target Monsters or Vehicles this phase.’
*Page 97 – Boon of Tzeentch, Spawndom
Change the third sentence to the following:
‘If you do so, set up the Chaos Spawn within 6" of the character
and not within Engagement Range of any enemy units before
removing them as a casualty.’
Page 97 – Stratagems, Warpflame Gargoyles, rules text
Change the second sentence to read:
‘Pick a Thousand Sons Vehicle from your army (but not a
Helbrute or Heldrake) and roll a D6 for each other unit (friend
or foe) within 3" of it, subtracting 2 from the roll if the unit
being rolled for is a Character or Vehicle.’
*Page 98 – Stratagems, The Flesh-Change, rules text
Change the fourth sentence to the following:
‘If you do so, set up the Chaos Spawn within 6" of the character
and not within Engagement Range of any enemy units before
removing them as a casualty.’
WARHAMMER 40,000 – CODEX: THOUSAND SONS 2
*Page 101 – Dark Hereticus Discipline, Gift of Chaos, rules text
Change the fourth sentence to read:
‘If a Character is destroyed by this power, you can add one
Chaos Spawn to your army within 6" of the character and not
within Engagement Range of any enemy units before they are
removed as a casualty.’
Page 101 – Discipline of Tzeentch, Bolt of Change rules text
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Bolt of Change has a warp charge value of 8.’
*Page 101 – Discipline of Tzeentch, Bolt of Change, rules text
Change the fourth sentence to read:
‘If a Character is destroyed by this power, you can add a Chaos
Spawn to your army within 6" of the character and not within
Engagement Range of any enemy units before they are removed
as a casualty.’
Page 101 – Discipline of Tzeentch, Gaze of Fate, rules text
Change the second sentence to read:
‘If manifested, until the end of the turn you can re-roll one
single dice roll that you have rolled.’
Page 101 – Discipline of Tzeentch, Treason of Tzeentch,
rules text
Change the third and fourth sentences to read:
‘If the result is greater than the character’s Leadership
characteristic, until the end of the following Fight phase treat
that character as if it were a friendly model from your army in
your Shooting, Charge and Fight phases.’
*Page 101 – Warptime
Change the second sentence to read:
‘If manifested, pick a Heretic Astartes unit (excluding Aircraft)
within 3" of the psyker.’
FAQs
Q: Can a Tzaangor unit be equipped with both a brayhorn (from
Codex: Thousand Sons) and an instrument of Chaos (from
Index: Chaos)?
A: No. The brayhorn and instrument of Chaos are intended to be
the same wargear option with an updated name.
Q: If I select my Warlord for the Flesh Change Stratagem, can my
opponent achieve any relevant victory conditions or objectives as
a result of them being destroyed?
A: Yes.
Q: When a model’s datasheet states that it knows, for example,
three psychic powers from the Discipline of Change and/or Dark
Hereticus discipline, does this mean I can choose six psychic
powers for them in total?
A: No, it means you can choose three psychic powers for them,
in one of the following combinations:
1) three from the Discipline of Change.
2) three from the Dark Hereticus discipline.
3) one from one discipline and two from the other.
Q: The Brotherhood of Sorcerers ability increases the range of
psychic powers by 6". If a psychic power has a secondary effect
that has a range (such as Infernal Gateway, which has an initial
range of 12" but then affects all other units within 3"), does the
range increase apply to the initial range, the secondary range,
or both?
A: It only applies to the initial range; so in the case of Infernal
Gateway, you would identify the nearest visible enemy model
within 18" of the psyker, rather than within 12". That model’s
unit and every other unit within 3" of that model would then
suffer D3 mortal wounds.
Q: Can I replace the Smite psychic power when using the Chaos
Familiar Stratagem?
A: Yes.
Q: If I manifest the Gift of Chaos psychic power, and target a unit
whose models have different Toughness characteristics, which one
should I use?
A: Use the highest Toughness characteristic in the target unit.
Q: How should Perils of the Warp be resolved against units led by
an Aspiring Sorcerer or Scarab Occult Sorcerer?
A: Any mortal wounds suffered are applied to Sorcerer’s unit, so
can be applied to another model if you wish (if a model in that
unit has already suffered any wounds, it must still be applied to
this model first).
Q: If the Aspiring Sorcerer or Scarab Occult Sorcerer from a unit
has been slain, is this unit still treated as being a Psyker?
A: Yes.
Designer’s Note: Whilst these units would not be able to manifest
or deny any psychic powers, any abilities, objectives or effects
which affect psykers are still likely to affect these warp-infused,
animated suits of armour.
Q: Can the Killshot Stratagem be used to affect
Hellforged Predators?
A: No. The Killshot Stratagem can only be used to affect models
using the Chaos Predator datasheet.
Q: If a Character is being treated as part of the opponent’s army
due to the Treason of Tzeentch psychic power, must units from
that Character’s actual army fight it in the Fight phase if they are
within Engagement Range of that Character?
A: Yes.