WARHAMMER 40,000 – CODEX: TYRANIDS 1
CODEX: TYRANIDS
Indomitus Version 1.1
These documents collect amendments to the rules and present
our responses to players’ frequently asked questions. Often
these amendments are updates necessitated by new releases or
community feedback; these can be identified by the presence
of an asterisk before the page reference. At other times, these
amendments are errata designed to correct mistakes or add
clarity to a rule that is not as clear as it might be.
As they’re revised regularly, each of these documents has a
version number; where a version number has a letter, e.g. 1.1a,
this means it has had a local amendment, only in that language,
to clarify a translation issue or other minor correction. When
a document is revised, the version number will be incremented
and new updates will be highlighted in blue, while new errata
and FAQs will be highlighted in magenta.
UPDATES & ERRATA
*Page 88 – Old One Eye, Alpha Leader
Add the following to the end of this ability:
‘In addition, while any other friendly <Hive Fleet> Carnifex
units are within 3” of this model, enemy models cannot target
this model with ranged attacks.’
*Page 93 – Lictor, Abilities, Chameleonic Skin
Change to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to this model while it
is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to any
armour saving throw made against that attack.’
*Page 93 – Deathleaper, Abilities, Superior Chameleonic Skin
Change the second sentence to read:
‘Each time a ranged attack is allocated to this model while it
is receiving the benefits of cover, add an additional 1 to any
armour saving throw made against that attack.’
*Page 100 – Tyrannofex, Bio-tank
Delete this ability.
*Page 101 and 113 – Toxicrene and ranged weapons list, massive
toxic lashes (shooting), Abilities
Change to read:
‘You can re-roll failed wound rolls for this weapon.’
Page 101 – Biovores, Abilities, Spore Mine Launcher
Change the first sentence of the second paragraph to read:
‘Each time a spore mine launcher misses its target, set up a
single <Hive Fleet> Spore Mine model anywhere within 6" of
the target unit and more than 3" from any enemy model (if the
Spore Mine cannot be placed it is destroyed).’
Page 109 – Harpy, Abilities, Spore Mine Cysts
Change the first sentence of the second paragraph to read:
‘Each time a Spore Mine misses its target, set up a single <Hive
Fleet> Spore Mine anywhere within 6" of the target unit and
more than 3" from any enemy model (if the Spore Mine cannot
be placed it is destroyed).’
*Page 110 – Sporocyst, Abilities, Bio-fortress
Delete this ability.
Page 110 – Sporocyst, Abilities, Spawn Spore Mines
Change the second sentence to read:
‘If it does so, add a new unit of 3 <Hive Fleet> Spore Mines or
1 <Hive Fleet> Mucolid Spore to your army and set it up on the
battlefield so that it is wholly within 6" of the Sporocyst and
more than 1" from the enemy (any models that cannot be placed
are destroyed).’
Page 110 – Sporocyst, Abilities, Spore Node
Change the first sentence of the second paragraph to read:
‘Each time a spore node attack misses its target, add a new unit
of 3 <Hive Fleet> Spore Mines or 1 <Hive Fleet> Mucolid Spore
to your army and set it up on the battlefield so that it is wholly
within 6" of the target unit and more than 3" from any enemy
model (any models that cannot be placed are destroyed).’
Page 110 – Sporocyst, Abilities, Bombardment Organism
Change this ability to read: ‘When you set up this unit during
deployment, it can be set up anywhere on the battlefield that
is more than 9" from the enemy deployment zone and any
enemy models.’
Page 116, The Shadow in the Warp
Change the first sentence to read:
‘In this section you’ll find rules for Battle-forged armies that
include Tyranids Detachments.’
Add the following section before ‘Abilities’:
‘Tyranids Units
In the rules described in this section we often refer to ‘Tyranids
units’. This is shorthand for any Tyranids unit that also has the
<Hive Fleet> keyword. A Tyranids Detachment is therefore one
which only includes units with both the Tyranids and <Hive
Fleet> keyword.
Note that although Genestealer Cults are devoted to the Hive
Mind and will willingly fight alongside their xenos masters, they
deviate significantly in terms of organisation and tactics, not to
mention physiology! Genestealer Cults units therefore cannot
make use of any of the rules listed in this section (this includes
the Detachment abilities, Stratagems, bio-artefacts, psychic 
WARHAMMER 40,000 – CODEX: TYRANIDS 2
powers, Warlord Traits and Tactical Objectives described in this
section), and instead have their own rules.’
Page 117 – Hive Fleet Adaptations, Jormungandr: Tunnel
Networks, rules text
Change the second sentence to read:
‘If the unit Advances or declares a charge, however, it loses
the benefit of this adaptation until the start of your next
Movement phase.’
Page 119 – Stratagems, Pathogenic Slime, rules text
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Use this Stratagem at the start of your Shooting phase.’
Page 119 – Stratagems, Sporefield, rules text
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Use this Stratagem after both armies have deployed but before
the first battle round begins.’
Pages 119 and 120 – Stratagems, Sporefield and Call the Brood,
rules text
Add the following:
‘This unit must belong to the same Hive Fleet as another unit
from your army.’
Page 119 – Stratagems, Pheromone Trail, rules text
Add the following:
‘You cannot use this Stratagem to affect a unit of reinforcements
being set up by the Genestealer’s Infestation ability, or that are
added to your army due to a unit’s ability.’
Page 120 – Stratagems, The Enemy Below, rules text
Change the third sentence to read:
‘Whenever you set up a unit of Raveners, a Mawloc, Trygon or a
Trygon Prime at the end of your Movement phase (a burrowing
unit), you can also set up any number of units you set up within
the tunnels.’
Page 120 – Stratagems, Hyper-toxicity, rules text
Change the first sentence to read:
‘Use this Stratagem at the start of the Fight phase.’
*Page 120 – Stratagems, Digestive Denial
Change to read:
‘Use this Stratagem after deployment but before the first battle
round begins. Select one Area Terrain feature. Until the end of
the battle, that terrain feature loses the Light Cover and Heavy
Cover terrain traits (see Warhammer 40,000 Core Book).’
Page 121 – Hive Mind Discipline, The Horror, rules text
Change the second sentence of this psychic power to read:
‘If manifested, select one enemy unit within 24" of and visible to
the psyker.’
Page 124 – Warlord Traits, Alien Cunning, rules text
Change the first sentence to read:
‘At the start of the first battle round, but before the first turn
begins, you can remove your Warlord from the battlefield and
set them up again as described in the Deployment section of the
mission you are playing.’
FAQs
Q: Can a unit affected by the Onslaught psychic power Advance
and fire Heavy weapons?
A: No.
Q: Is a unit under the effect of the Onslaught psychic power
treated as remaining stationary, even if it has moved (for
example, for the purposes of the Weapon Beast ability)?
A: No.
Q: Does the Instinctive Behaviour ability apply to Tyranids units
whilst they are embarked within a Fortification?
A: Yes – that means that you must subtract 1 from hit rolls made
for that unit when shooting at any target other than the nearest
visible enemy unit.
Q: When a unit is set up in a locale other than the battlefield, can
they change that locale (other than to be set up on the battlefield)?
For example, if a unit is set up ‘within the tunnels’ as part of The
Enemy Below, must they be set up on the battlefield following that
Stratagem, or can they be set up in another fashion?
A: They cannot change their locale. In the example, they can
only be set up on the battlefield following the conditions of The
Enemy Below.
Q: When a unit is chosen to make a charge move and fails the
charge, do they still count as having charged? Specifically, can
a unit that has failed a charge move be chosen to pile in – and
potentially consolidate – towards the enemy?
A: A unit only counts as having charged if they made a charge
move. If a charge fails, and no models make a charge move, they
do not count as having charged. As such, they cannot be chosen
to fight in the Fight phase (and so cannot pile in or consolidate)
unless an enemy unit moves within 1" of them.
Q: Can a unit ever Advance twice in a single phase?
A: No.
Q: If a unit has Advanced in a phase, and is given the
opportunity to move again in the same phase, what is their
Move characteristic?
A: Their Move characteristic for the second move would still be
the value as modified from the Advance.
For example, if a unit with a Move characteristic of 5" Advances
in a Movement phase, and the result of the dice rolled for the
Advance is 4, its Move characteristic would be modified for that
phase to 9". As such, if it was given the opportunity to move
again in that phase, its Move characteristic would still be 9".
Q: How many heavy venom cannons and stranglethorn cannons
can a model be armed with?
A: A model can be armed with either one heavy venom cannon
or one stranglethorn cannon, not one of each.
Q: Can a Broodlord use the Genestealers’ Infestation ability to be
set up during the battle near an infestation node?
A: No.
WARHAMMER 40,000 – CODEX: TYRANIDS 3
Q: Deathleaper’s Superior Chameleonic Skin infers a -2 modifier
on attacks that target it. Given that these rolls cannot be modified
by more than -1 or +1, when would this ability ever be useful?
A: While hit rolls and wounds rolls cannot be modified by more
than -1 or +1, this limit takes effect after all applicable modifiers
have been applied, some of which may cancel each other out.
For example, an enemy Red Terror model makes a melee attack
against Deathleaper. The Red Terror’s Feeding Frenzy ability applies
a +1 modifier to that attack’s hit roll, and the Deathleaper’s Superior
Chameleonic Skin also gives a -2 modifier to the roll. Applying both
of these modifiers to the hit roll results in a final modifier of -1.
Q: If you use a Maleceptor’s Psychic Overload ability, can that
Maleceptor attempt to manifest any psychic powers in that
Psychic phase?
A: No.
Q: If a model has more than one pair of scything/monstrous
scything/massive scything talons, does it make 1 additional
attack with one of those pairs, or 1 additional attack with each of
those pairs?
A: 1 additional attack with one of those pairs.
Q: If a model has more than one ‘pair’ of boneswords, does it
make 1 additional attack with one of those pairs, or 1 additional
attack with each of those pairs?
A: 1 additional attack with one of those pairs.
Q: Do Hive Fleet Jormungandr units gain the cover bonus twice if
they are in ruins?
A: No.
Q: Does the Psychic Barrage Stratagem prevent all three units
of Zoanthropes from attempting to manifest psychic powers
that turn?
A: Yes.
Q: If a Genestealer, Lictor, Toxicrene or Venomthrope from my
army attacks an enemy Character in the Fight phase, reducing
it to 1 wound, and I use the Implant Attack Stratagem to kill that
character, can I then use the Feeder Tendrils Stratagem?
A: Yes.
Q: If I use the Metabolic Overdrive Stratagem on a unit in the
Movement phase, and then Onslaught on the same unit in the
Psychic phase, can that unit charge?
A: No.
Q: Do you pay reinforcement points in matched play for Spore
Mines brought into the game using the Sporefield Stratagem?
A: Yes.
Q: If my opponent has units that are set up after both armies have
deployed, when do I use the Sporefield Stratagem – before or after
those units are set up? If before, how do you determine who would
place their units first?
A: You use the Stratagem before any such units are set up. If
both players then have units with abilities that allow them to be
set up after both armies have deployed, the players should roll
off and the winner decides who sets up their units first.
Q: When using the Pheromone Trail Stratagem, can you bring the
Lictor onto the battlefield in the same turn as the unit that it acts
as a homing beacon for?
A: Yes – simply bring the Lictor onto the battlefield before the
other unit.
Q: If a Character with a damage table uses the Death Frenzy
Stratagem to make a final attack before it is removed from the
battlefield, which line on its damage table should you use for
that attack?
A: Treat the character as having 1 wound remaining when
referring to its damage table.
Q: Do you pay reinforcement points in matched play for units
brought back into the game using the Endless Swarm Stratagem?
A: Yes.
Q: If a unit with adrenal glands is affected by the Opportunistic
Advance Stratagem, how is their movement for that
phase calculated?
A: Adrenal glands don’t modify either the Movement
characteristic of a unit, or the dice rolled for an Advancing unit.
As such, you would use Opportunistic Advance, roll the dice,
double the result, add that to the Movement characteristic, and
then use the adrenal glands to add 1" to the distance the unit
can move.
Q: Is a unit that is affected by the Opportunistic Advance
Stratagem treated as having Advanced for the purposes of
shooting or charging later in that turn?
A: Yes.
Q: Do the Scythes of Tyran allow you to re-roll hit rolls of 1?
A: No.
Q: My Behemoth Hive Tyrant, armed with toxin sacs and the
Reaper of Obliterax, has the Monstrous Hunger Warlord Trait.
If I were to roll a 6 to wound in the Fight phase, would the final
damage be (3 for the bonesword lash + 1 for toxin sacs + 1 for the
Warlord Trait) × 2 for the Reaper of Obliterax’s ability for a total
of 10, or 3 for the bonesword lash × 2 for the Reaper of Obliterax’s
ability + 1 for toxin sacs + 1 for the Warlord Trait for a total of 8?
A: You multiply the weapon damage for the Reaper of Obliterax
ability, and then add 2 for the combination of Monstrous
Hunger and toxin sacs for a total of 8.
Q: If a Warlord has been given the Heightened Senses Warlord
Trait, can it still suffer from negative modifiers to its Weapon Skill
or Ballistic Skill?
A: Yes, the Heightened Senses Warlord Trait only exempts it
from penalties to the hit roll, not to any negative modifiers to the
Warlord’s characteristics.